hey guys Greg and Ryan here and we're
breaking down Twin Peaks the return
parts 1 & 2 stay tuned for 3 & 4 later
on but right now we're going to stick to
everything that's only in the first two
parts first make sure to subscribe to
get about universe so you can stay up to
date with all of our TV coverage
including American Gods and Fargo
alright let's just go right into it
let's jump in there's so much Lynch
going on this episode where we got it
right it we got so much to unpack roll
it down hit the card let's do this we've
been waiting 20 60 years for Twin Peaks
to come back to figure out what happened
to Dale Cooper only to discover he's
been stuck in the Black Lodge that
entire time that is so crushing from the
very beginning we jump in with both feet
straight into the red room at the Black
Lodge we've got the giant you got Dale
Cooper it's in black and white just like
racer head a lot of references going
back and forth and it's opening shot
itself and very plotting and very slow
in that Eraserhead style from this
conversation scene with the Giant we get
a few hints as to well clues I wouldn't
say hints we ACLU's mm-hmm that are
going to come up later on yeah the owl's
are not what they seem moment starts
right at the beginning amen doc four-30
sure Stan pudding got to Bauer spur
thoughts gone this is all very ominous
we don't know who Richard and Linda are
yet and this is the first number of many
become got one more thing in that scene
which is the record player and I don't
have any idea what that is what do you
think well I love the noises they make
it a little clicks the electronic clicks
that you can actually hear throughout
the first two episodes
I have a feeling the noise is coming
from that it's trying to reach the
outside world interesting it sounds from
the outside world yes
it's trying to get sounds in from the
outside world okay we go from there into
totally new territory for Twin Peaks we
go to New York and we're in a high-rise
with a very strange glass container and
some poor kid whose job it is to keep an
eye on it I love that the first shot of
the high-rise once we get inside there
it's like how shop space obviously how
shot very much soon so this guy Sam's
primary job appears to be to sit on a
couch watch the glass container and
every once in a while change the SD
cards out of the cameras that are
recording it and I love with the cameras
look like he's old-school mixed with
high-tech technology at the same time
the little black box yeah a little black
box camera that was really cool it
reminds me of the stunt cameras they
used to like hide in places that they
knew would get crushed by a motorcycle
or a car crash
thank you can go crash cam yes yeah old
angel bands so as yet though we don't
really know what the significance of
this room is or how it ties into the
super plot at all but it is one of the
plots we're keeping an eye on so the
next plot line that we're following
takes place in Buckhorn South Dakota and
this is kind of cool because it's
actually like a mini Twin Peaks first
season in another place with similar
quirky characters with Affairs going on
with murder everything like that yeah
you had your character constants he's
pretty much like I think you're Dale
Cooper I think she's a little bit more
of like the sheriff Truman he's the
local she's competent and she's
definitely not a dumb ski like hurry
coworkers so the centerpiece of this
plotline revolves around another murder
that's a mystery
now the actual scene itself with roof
Davenport the once they get into the
apartment hmm wrapped in her covers
little honey yeah but then when they
reveal the covers you find out it's her
head but on another guy's body and we
find pretty quickly that there is a
person central to that plot named Bill
Hastings who is this version of Twin
Peaks is Leland Palmer so this plot line
revolves around the murder of Ruth
Davenport which we find out about in a
very very very typically David Lynch
sequence where they can't find the keys
to the apartment that the body is in
Margery Greene is classic Lynch her
character in general that whole scene
trying to find the keys with the cops
well it would be a shame because I'm
supposed to water our pants when she's
out of town I have to eat oh very
classic Lynch and it's bizarre uncanny
Ness I love it it's one of the best
scenes so far where's the smell coming
from this is green
oh let's go in the Bob when the second
he walks out of that Mercedes I thought
it was Bruce Campbell first time I saw
it's like out of Bubba hotep or
something
it's so weird now it's important to note
that the Bob Cooper is also kind of a
badass and a psychopath and kind of
freaking scary yes he twice disarms a a
guard without even thinking about it
Bob's back and we don't know exactly
what he's doing just yet we do know he
has something to do at roof Davenport's
murder and he's trying to make sure he
doesn't go back to the Black Lodge I'm
supposed to get pulled back into what
they call the black launch part of this
plot line is that he has the computer
slash maybe space phone thing that I
think could belong to have belonged to
major Briggs and is being used to
communicate with Phillip Jeffries who
you would remember as the David Bowie
character and fire walk with me these
are unconfirmed theories but let us know
if you have a different idea
now with the reason we know Bob's
involved in Ruth's murder he shows up
later on to kill Lois you did good you
follow a human nature perfectly the
scene right before that the black demon
you see him disappear and then it cuts
straight to Phyllis's murder does this
character have something to do with Bob
I don't know we'll have to wait and see
so Bob and Cooper are very central
things to Twin Peaks but we haven't yet
talked about the really familiar things
at Twin Peaks and the next plotline has
to do with some of the main characters
of the original series yes so we get a
bunch of returning characters we got Ben
and Jerry Horne with a great line sock
it to me sock it to me
it's a beautiful soul and she's married
I'll never stop you before
sock it to me sock it to me
with Jerry as always bringing something
to eat with him every single time every
single time oh he's a pothead now yes
now he's a pothead he's got a legal
dispensary of some variety or a growing
operation that is yeah very profitable
now we also see Shelley and James yeah
and we see dr. Jacoby doing something in
the woods with shovels it's so cool
because those shots your far back the
sound you can only you can barely hear
them you hear what they're talking about
but it's there's no mic on them and it's
just a boy or shot of dr. Jacoby get
picking up a bunch of shovels I love
that that's actually a perfect example
that is classic Lynch right there you
have a shot which by the way is also
obstructed by some trees yeah and
exactly the sound design you can barely
hear their voices now we also have a
couple more characters from the original
series and they're part of the main Twin
Peaks plot that we've seen there's a
little bit of Andy and Lucy but the
center is around the log lady and Hawk
also I love the tribute they gave to
Katherine Coulson who played the log
lady she her lines of dialogue are the
titles the first two episodes my log has
a message for you the stars turn and the
time presents itself
now when Hawks out there looking for
Dale this is a cool call back to season
two deputy Hawk if I'm ever lost I hope
you're the man they send to find me
maybe when we always had your back and
apparently Hawk does somewhat find Dale
we see that he finds a portal yes he
finds the old Black Lodge entrance and
then it cuts straight in this Lynch
fashion right into the Red Room again
where everything goes crazy everyone's
walking backwards lower Palmer she does
a famous lines again she whispers in
Dale's
ear we get the line from lower Palmer
saying hi ah okay yeah yeah there is
almost this impression that we're gonna
have
Laura Palmer outside of the Black Lodge
at some point even if it's another
version of her because I think we're
dealing a lot of doppelgangers
throughout this whole season so we could
be seen other doppelgangers of Laura
Palmer now also the one-armed man
introduces Dale to his arm that's
evolved into an electrical tree yeah so
Michael J Anderson didn't want to return
they had a bad falling out apparently
with David Lynch we don't know exactly
what happened there so they recast him
at a tree here we are again also with
some more numbers that were going to be
keeping an eye on the tree says two five
three time and time again we're going to
find out what that means soon not just
yet
so a couple more things that happen uh
Dale in his twists and turns through the
Black Lodge uh finds himself a view of
the road that Bob is driving on with the
car there yeah that he isn't able to
quite interact with and then he also has
a run-in with good old Leland Palmer we
get our one shot at Leland Palmer ray
Weiss in this episode very quick and
short right to the point
very or finally our last moments in the
Red Room have Dale meeting okay the arms
doppelganger hmm which screams at him
non-existent non-existent and then
expels him from the Red Room and he
winds up in the glass box in New York
temporarily for a short moment a tiny
period which unfortunately our guy who's
supposed to be there watching everything
just isn't around for we got to talk
about the scene where that alien
creature or smoke monster or whatever
the hell you call it is in the glass box
pops out and kills Sam and Tracy I feel
like David Lynch's ballina do this thing
like this forever easy Oh totally his
style he's like I got Showtime I can do
whatever the hell I want and
just has some demon scratch off their
entire faces
and in terms of the order of events and
what we might be talking about down the
road this is after Dale came through and
we know other things have come through
from dialogue but after Dale came
through something came through after
Dale looking for him
some quick thoughts in the first two
episodes I found that this is very very
light on polity almost no comedy
whatsoever except for Ben and Jerry
I guess Ben and Jerry are pretty comic
and of course so is the finding body
sequence and missing keys yes but you're
right actually kind of conspicuously
absent Lynch's darker tones are on
display here in these first two episodes
you raise their head Lost Highway
Mulholland Drive more in that vein a lot
more in that day something else I think
that is worth mentioning is of course
the iconic theme music is back from
Angelo Badalamenti but that's it he
doesn't really have there really is no
score honestly there's a few shots of it
and then we get this weird like almost
for like Trent Reznor score we have when
there we introduced the Box character
yeah we're definitely not spending as
much time in bottle amenties mood
although in terms of music we do also
have an episode that concludes with
music at the Roadhouse
yes which has a very almost Julie Cruz
quality to it and the pacing of these
two episodes are very slow that's true
it's a very almost at what I could say I
think now is almost a classic lynch
slowness yeah like there's unnecessary
pregnant pauses that completely throw
the rhythm off joint and honestly I love
that I think that you know if Lynch
totally had his way probably would've
been the same way 25 years ago a little
bit too but again this is one of those
things where if you're really not in a
David Lynch and you're just trying to
sit down to watch this you're gonna hard
time especially the New York scenes I
love this seems a Andy and Lucy they'll
just dole out expository dialogue for
bales character real quickly and then
they leave and they're still as adorable
was ever yep yeah also we have to bring
up this billionaire character who's
residing over everything a little bit
right now yeah it appears to have
installations in Vegas and New York yep
and he wants Bob gay how much do they
want me dead what are they paying you
okay I think there is one more character
that we left out so far Sarah Palmer I
love the shot of her sitting down
watching TV and you get the reflection
the mirrors and the background the Lions
eating the water buffalo the best kind
of awesome
oh man that I was waiting for something
absolutely terrifying to happen at the
end of that scene I was waiting for her
to like turn and see Bob again or just
something that was going to bring back
the scream do you remember the scream
it's that slow buildup of impending doom
it's palpable
we can't wait to break down episodes
three and four next but let us know what
you thought about parts 1 & 2 in the
comments below and while you're at it
make sure to subscribe to gain spot so
you can stay up to date with all of our
TV coverage we also have American Gods
going on right now and Fargo it's good
stuff yeah alright guys see you later
bye bye